- [Instructor] One of the most common patterns
when dealing with databases is the DAO pattern.
Now, data access objects, or DAOs,
provide an abstraction layer between the raw JDBC code
and the rest of your code specifically, the business logic.
Now, DAOs can really come in two forms,
and it's really a personal preference.
They can be a simple abstraction,
or it can be a true object.
Now, most people use DTOs with DAOs
as a pure abstraction layer.
Regardless of which way you use, however,
it provides a clear separation
of concerns in your code itself.
Now, if you're using a DAO as a pure abstraction layer,
you're going to have a DTO, or a data transfer object.
Now, the data transfer object provides
a single domain of data and it's fully encapsulated objects
that may also contain subobjects.
This often transforms itself in the concept of a table
and sub tables or child tables that there are joins to.
Now, the output and input of a single DAO
should be a single DTO and all of its child objects.
The DAO itself often leverages a common interface.
And a concrete implementation reacts
on a single data domain, now, what that means
is you can have a customer who has addresses,
and phone numbers and email addresses,
and the customer DAO will respond
to that entire data domain, that customer itself,
with all of its phone numbers and other contact information
that we just talked about.
Now, this pattern can, and usually supports multiple tables,
but it doesn't have to, it can be a single table.
And a lot of times, if you find
yourself doing single tables,
you're actually creating a repository.
And we're going to talk about that later.
Now, these DAOs can provide you with solid encapsulation
of complex join pass and aggregations.
Now, the OO purists will often add a factory into this.
Now, this factory provides the ability
to leverage very common paths for basic CRUD operations.
For instance, if you are adding objects,
you can just simply call into the factory,
get an object and call add on it without actually worrying
about the instance of that object.
And again, pure OO people really, really like this.
For me, it's a little bit of overkill
when you're doing DAOs, but I'll leave that up to you.
To me, this loses value when you have
a lot of custom methods and, in reality,
if we only have credit operations,
we're not really doing anything interesting
with our data in the database and, if that's the case,
then you probably should be using the repository pattern
and not the DAO pattern but, again,
we'll get into more of that later.
The key here is that this really
is a pure object oriented programming concept
that you can apply to your data access.